Google Cloud CE (#721)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/compute-envs/google-cloud.md

---
title: "Google Cloud"
description: "Instructions to set up an Google Cloud CE in Seqera Platform"
date created: "2025-07-15"
tags: [cloud, vm, google, compute environment]
---

# Google Cloud

:::note

> This compute environment type is currently in public preview. Please consult this guide for the latest information on recommended configuration and limitations. his guide assumes you already have a GCP account with a valid GCP subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This compute environment type is currently in public preview. Please consult this guide for the latest information on recommended configuration and limitations. This guide assumes you already have a GCP account with a valid GCP subscription.
```

## Advanced options

- **Use an ARM64 architecture instance**: Use an ARM64 architecture instance: Select this option to enable a ARM architecture instance to be created for your compute workload. Defaults to using a [C4A machine series](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/general-purpose-machines#c4a_series) VM with Google's Arm-based Axion™ processor.
- **User GPU-enabled instance**: Select this option to enable a GPU-enabled instance to be created for your compute workload. Defaults to using an [A2 machine series](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gpus) VM with an NVIDIA A100 GPU.
- **Instance type**: The Compute Engine machine type used by the compute environment. Choosing the instance type will directly allocate the CPU and memory available for computation. See the [machine resource type documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource) for a comprehensive list of instance types and their resource limitations.
  - :::note

>     It is not possible to specify instance templates with predefined machine types, storage, boot strapped, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It is not possible to specify instance templates with predefined machine types, storage, bootstrapped, etc.
```

    :::  

> - **Image**: The image defining the operating system and pre-installed software for the VM. Currently only [Ubuntu LTS](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/images/os-details#ubuntu_lts) Google public image project images are available and supported. For GPU-enabled instances a Deep Learning VM base image with CUDA pre-installed is automatically selected (See the [Google Deep Learning VM Images documentation](https://cloud.google.com/deep-learning-vm/docs/images#base_versions) for more details). In future, there will be optimized Seqera-owned custom images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Image**: The image defining the operating system and pre-installed software for the VM. Currently only [Ubuntu LTS](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/images/os-details#ubuntu_lts) Google public image project images are available and supported. For GPU-enabled instances, a Deep Learning VM base image with CUDA pre-installed is automatically selected (See [Google Deep Learning VM Images](https://cloud.google.com/deep-learning-vm/docs/images#base_versions) for more details). Optimized, Seqera-owned custom images will be available in a future release.
```

- **Boot disk size**: The size of the boot disk for the Compute Engine instance. A standard persistent disk (`pd-standard`) is used. If undefined, a default 50 GB volume will be used.

> - **Zone**: The specific [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones) within the selected region, where the VM will be provisioned (defaults to the first zone in the list alphabetically).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Zone**: The [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones) within the selected region where the VM will be provisioned (defaults to the first zone in the alphabetical list).
```
